INFORMATICA INTERVIEW QUESTIONS: 

Q1:What is ETL and what are ETL Tools?
Ans1:ETL is a process of Extract, Transform and Load the data into DataWarehousing in the required format for decision-making.

ETL TOOLS:
IBM Datastage
Informatica PowerCenter
Abinitio
Talend Studio etc.

Q2:. What is Informatica?
Informatica is an ETL tool provided by ‘Informatica Corporation’ which is used to Extract, Transform and Load all type of databases.

Q3). What is Informatica PowerCenter Tools?
Informatica PowerCenter had 2 types of Tools:

Server Tools: Administrator Console, Integration Service
Client Tools: Repository Manager, Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor

Q4). What is Repository Manager?
It is used to organize and secure metadata by creating folders.

Q5). What is Designer?
The designer is used to create source definitions, target definitions, and transformations to build the mappings.
Also, it is used to create mapplets which can be reused in different mappings.

Q6). What is Workflow Manager?
It is used to store workflow metadata and connection object information in the repository. A wf contains sessions and different tasks according to the requirement. 
Tasks can include session, email notification, assignment task, decision task etc. 
Each task in a wf needs to be connected via links and also we can provide link task based on the requirements

Q7). What is Workflow Monitor?
It is used to retrieve wf run status and session logs.

Q9). Define Session?
It is a set of instructions that describe how and when to move the data from source to target.

Q10). Define Transformation?
Its nothing but a repository object that generates, modifies or passes data.

Active and Passive Transformation?
An active transformation can change the number and position of rows that pass through it. For Eg. Aggregator, Rank, Filter etc.
A passive transformation doesn’t change the number of rows that pass through it. For Eg. Expression, Sequence Generator etc.

Connected and Unconnected Transformation?
A connected transformation is connected to source definition or target definition or other transformation in a mapping
An unconnected transformation is not connected to any of the Informatica objects in a mapping.

Q11). What is SQ Transformation?
An SQ is an active and connected transformation that reads the rows from a relational database or flat file source while running a session.

Q12). What is an Expression Transform?
The expression is a Passive and connected transformation which is used to calculate values in a single row. Also, it can be used to test conditional statements before writing the output results to target tables or other transformations.

For eg. we might need to adjust employee salaries, concatenate first and last names, or convert strings to numbers or vice versa etc.

Q13). How do we convert a Date field coming as data type string from a flat file?
IIF( IS_DATE( Column1 ) = 1, TO_DATE( Column1 , ‘YYYY-MM-DD’ ), NULL )

Q14). How to select distinct rows for flat file sources?
Since in a Flat File the distinct option in the source qualifier will be disabled, hence we can use a Sorter Transformation and check the Distinct option to get the unique rows.
When we select the distinct option all the columns will the selected as keys, in ascending order by default.

Q15). How can we delete duplicate records using Aggregator?
By using the Group By checkbox on the ports having duplicate occurring data.

